Phillis Wheatley, Poems on various subjects, religious and moral, London, England, 1773, University of Pennsylvania, Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts [AC7 W5595 773p]. https://colenda.library.upenn.edu/catalog/81431-p3nz81d2b, https://find.library.upenn.edu/catalog/9959523563503681?hld_id=resource_link_0.


I chose to record data about voice and hierarchy in this Wheatley excerpt. First, I was interested in how much of what she is writing is “authentic” to what she might really want to write, publish, or think, or if this book is more the coalescence and result of the hegemonies imposed upon her and her language. I know this question of voice can be ambiguous, so I decided to see if it was quantifiable. I measured the speaker, addressees, and pronouns (who are the subjects and objects); I measured the predicate grammar on assertiveness or permissiveness (how these subjects interrelate); and I measured many hegemonic words (nation, slavery, race, gender, religion, history). These descriptive metadata are the first step in my investigation as I try to comb through this piece on a high level: what is Wheatley talking about, how is she talking about it, and what speculations about her language and its imposed limits can we begin to make?

I used ChatGPT for my OCR, and most of the .txt files were generally readable. Cases that violate the general legibility include 1) inconsistent spacing, 2) display typefaces, 3) the long s (ſ). Case 1 occurred often in the front matter, resulting in some gibberish transcriptions. Case 2 occurred throughout the 25-page sample, especially in headers and poem titles, and I often had to manually standardize the lettering of a word or line to completely uppercase or lowercase. Case 3 occurred because OCR consistently could not recognize the ſ, instead mistaking it for an f or a t. These replacements to the modern s constituted a substantial portion of my corrections. However, ChatGPT translated the table of signatories on page 15 with a surprising degree of sensibility, placing a row on the same line and dividing the columns with a vertical bar (|). Moreover, the image on page 8 was not included in its .txt file, and I did not attempt to ameliorate this, as it didn’t seem quite relevant to later textual analysis.
